

Q. prefix date infront of the file name and display

cdate=$(date +%Y-%m-%d)
for file in file1 file2; do
    mv "$file" "$cdate"_"$file"
done





DEVELOPING A SHELL

Basic lifetime of a shell

    Initialize: In this step, a typical shell would read and execute its configuration files.
    These change aspects of the shell’s behavior.
    Interpret: Next, the shell reads commands from stdin (which could be interactive, or a file) and executes them.
    Terminate: After its commands are executed, the shell executes any shutdown commands, frees up any memory, and terminates.


Basic loop of a shell


    Read: Read the command from standard input.
    Parse: Separate the command string into a program and arguments.
    Execute: Run the parsed command.

How shells start processes

Now, we’re really at the heart of what a shell does. Starting processes is the main function of shells.
So writing a shell means that you need to know exactly what’s going on with processes and how they start.
That’s why I’m going to take us on a short diversion to discuss processes in Unix.

There are only two ways of starting processes on Unix. The first one (which almost doesn’t count) is by being Init.
You see, when a Unix computer boots, its kernel is loaded.Once it is loaded and initialized, the kernel starts only one
process, which is called Init.This process runs for the entire length of time that the computer is on, and it manages loading
up the rest of the processes that you need for your computer to be useful.

Since most programs aren’t Init, that leaves only one practical way for processes to get started: the fork() system call.
When this function is called, the operating system makes a duplicate of the process and starts them both running.
The original process is called the “parent”, and the new one is called the “child”. fork() returns 0 to the child process, 
and it returns to the parent the process ID number (PID) of its child. In essence, this means that the only way for new 
processes is to start is by an existing one duplicating itself.

This might sound like a problem. Typically, when you want to run a new process, you don’t just want another copy of the 
same program – you want to run a different program. That’s what the exec() system call is all about.
It replaces the current running program with an entirely new one. This means that when you call exec, the operating
system stops your process, loads up the new program, and starts that one in its place. A process never returns from
an exec() call (unless there’s an error).

With these two system calls, we have the building blocks for how most programs are run on Unix.
First, an existing process forks itself into two separate ones. Then, the child uses exec() to replace itself with a 
new program. The parent process can continue doing other things, and it can even keep tabs on its children, using the
system call wait().


==You should be able to redirect STDIN and STDOUT for the new processes by using < and >.
For example, foo < infile > outfile would create a new process to run foo and assign STDIN for the new process to infile
and STDOUT for the new process to outfile. In many real shells it gets much more complicated than this 
(e.g. >> to append, > to overwrite, >& redirect STDERR and STDOUT, etc.)! 
(WARNING: I am told that I/O redirection may be quite tricky on Windows. We may substitute a different feature here for
Windows) You also do not have to support I/O redirection for built-in commands (it shouldn't be too hard but you don't have
to do it.)
